A long haired tortie cat named Tilly was a very feral and scaredy cat. No one wanted her until one day Celia Haddon decided to take her home for rehabilitation.  It was a journey to tame the kitty and gain her trust, but in the end, Celia realized that it was really Tilly the cat who truly rescued her.
Celia Haddon wrote in her book about Tilly:
"I was looking at a very odd-looking cat. Her stringy coat was an unappealing muddy brown and her eyes were a frog-like green. As for her face, it had a distinct line down the nose, separating the right black half from the left tortoiseshell half. She wasn’t just odd-looking, she was also one of the most frightened cats I’d ever come across. The photograph I’d just taken showed her cowering in a cat pen, her ears flat on her skull and her eyes dilated with terror. Her hair stood out in spikes, like a cartoon cat.
Little wonder that no one had wanted to adopt Tilly in the 18 months she’d been with my local branch of Cats Protection, where - as a lifelong cat-lover, I had been a volunteer for several years. Like a bed-blocker in a hospital, Tilly had been taking up space for too long - indeed, some rescue organisations would have had her put down. So, in June 2010, I decided to make her my project. I’d just finished a science degree in applied animal behaviour and was keen to practise my new skills. I doubted I’d learn to love such an unlovable cat - but I was keen to work on her behaviour in a detached, scientific way."
Once she got Tilly home, the tortie cat immediately took refuge under the bed and froze against the wall. She didn't touch her food for the next two days.
"Maybe the poor little thing was feral. All I knew was she’d been rescued aged four months, sick and flea-infested, from a barn where she lived with numerous other cats. On day four, I lay on my stomach and peered under the bed: she was still crouched motionless. Rolling a few cat treats towards her just made her shrink more tightly against the wall. The following day, the treats were still there. In her mind, they’d been contaminated by the touch of this frightening human. It was time to change tack: I decided to stop all attempts to build a relationship. I didn’t look at her. I didn’t try to make nice little noises. I didn’t roll any more cat treats. Thus began a long time of cat invisibility."